USAGE
Invoke with "mreader [-ma] mailboxname". The "-ma" option allows you
to have multiple article windows open at once. By default, it only has the
one article window open, because it's easier to find where the article
window is, once you've positioned it. Unfortunately, this means that
you don't get to see the article you're replying to. To fix this, there's a
"multiart" command, which toggles this value from within the reader.

First window to appear is the list window. It shows all the articles
from the given mailfile, one per line. The line contains the From and
Subject fields, but it's currently chopped to make things look nicer.

You open an article by B3'ing on its subject line. What else?

Commands supported:
	exit		exit without doing anything to the mailfile.
	quit		save any changes to the mailfile before quitting.
	delete	delete the selected article. "selected" means the article
			which has dot in its subject line. This means you can
			click on the subject line with either B1 or B3, and
			then click on delete. If you sweep more than one
			subject line, then all the affected articles are
			deleted. Of course, if you click on delete within an
			article window, that article is the one that is
			deleted.  Delete doesn't actually do anything except
			mark the article for deletion, and puts a "D" before at
			the start of the subject line.
	undelete reverses delete.
	comp	compose a new message. You get a blank article window
			with From, To and Subject fields. Don't delete them.
	reply	Reply to the article (article is selected in the same fashion,
			i.e. B1/B3 list window, or just the article that the reply
			cmd was executed in). The To field is filled in from the
			From field. You can use "inc" or "incall" to include the
			text of the article you're replying to.
	abort	junk a comp/reply article without sending it.
	deliver	post a complete comp/reply article (well, feed it to sendmail).
	savefile	sets the name of the file that "save" writes to.
	save	appends the current message into the savefile. Creates the
			file if it doesn't exist. You can also sweep several articles
			in the list window, then click on save (also in the list window),
			and it'll save all of them.
	multiart toggles the "only one article window at once" flag. This is
			handy for viewing several articles or reading one article
			while replying to another.
	allheaders toggles whether all header fields are displayed. By default,
			a particular set are suppressed (the set is in the array
			hidden_hdrs[] in mail.c).
	inc [n]	Includes a message into the current position of the current
			message. If you specify a message number, it'll include that
			message.
	incall	Same as inc, but will include the headers of the message, too.
	commit	Write changes back to the mailbox, but don't actually quit.
	rescan	Load any new mail that has arrived. Doesn't write any changes
			done so far, though.

Bugs
Probably vast numbers of them...

Unlike most windows, it current has the tools *before* the window label.
This is because of the broken tags problem. Right now, I'm cheating,
and inserting the tools at the start of the tag, instead of the end - that
seems to work...
