The mail and news reader software is for wily 0.98. I haven't got
around to converting them to use the 1.0 beta, because I *use* them,
and Gary thinks the beta isn't ready for daily use yet.

MAIL READER USAGE
Invoke with "mreader mailboxname". The "-ma" option of the previous
version is still there, but it doesn't do anything. This is explained
below.

First window to appear is the list window. It shows all the articles
from the given mailfile, one per line. The line contains the From and
Subject fields, but it might be chopped to make things look nicer.

You open an article by B3'ing on its subject line. What else?

Commands supported:
	exit		exit without doing anything to the mailfile.
	quit		save any changes to the mailfile before quitting.
	delete	delete the selected article. "selected" means the article
			which has dot in its subject line. This means you can
			click on the subject line with either B1 or B3, and
			then click on delete. If you sweep more than one
			subject line, then all the affected articles are
			deleted. Of course, if you click on delete within an
			article window, that article is the one that is
			deleted.  Delete doesn't actually do anything except
			mark the article for deletion, and puts a "D" before at
			the start of the subject line.
	undelete reverses delete.
	comp	compose a new message. You get a blank article window
			with From, To and Subject fields. Don't delete them.
	reply	Reply to the article (I recommend that you only use this
			from within a particular article). The To field is filled in from the
			From field. You can use "inc" or "incall" to include the
			text of the article you're replying to.
	abort	junk a comp/reply article without sending it.
	deliver	post a complete comp/reply article (well, feed it to your mail agent).
	next	Display the next message in the current window.
	prev	Display the previous message in the current window.
	savefile	sets the name of the file that "save" writes to.
	save	appends the current message into the savefile. Creates the
			file if it doesn't exist. You can also sweep several articles
			in the list window, then click on save (in the list window),
			and it'll save all of them.
	allheaders toggles whether all header fields are displayed. By default,
			a particular set are suppressed (the set is in the array
			hidden_hdrs[] in mail.c).
	inc [n]	Includes a message body into the current position of the current
			message. If you specify a message number, it'll include that
			message.
	incall	Same as inc, but will include the headers of the message, too.
	commit	Write changes back to the mailbox, but don't actually quit.
	rescan	Load any new mail that has arrived. Doesn't write any changes
			done so far, though.

Window Control
The "multiart" mode in the last version didn't really work too well. I've
adopted a compromise that fits with the way I read mail, and which may
not work for you. Here's what happens:

	- When you B3 on an article's entry in the list, a window is opened for
	the article, unless there's already a window open and displaying that
	article, in which case you warp to it.
	- next and prev operate only in article windows, and replace the
	current window's contents with the next/previous message
	- composition articles (comp, reply) are always created from scratch,
	and exist until you explicitly close them with one of deliver, abort, quit,
	exit or Del.

Configuration
headers.h contains a few defines that you can twiddle - the maximum length
of the sender and subject details can be set here, and you can also define
whether the list shows the sender's email address or full name. The
parsing of From lines is fairly broken, but it'll do for now.

mail.c contains the hidden_hdrs[] array, which you can alter if you don't
like the default set of displayed headers.

mail.h defines MTU, which is your mail transfer utility. This has to be
capable of accepting a fully-formed message on stdin, without needing to
be told destination addresses on the command line.

It also defines the directory where your mail files are, and the number
of seconds it waits before rescanning the mailbox for changes. You can
also set the name of the environmental variable you use to specify the
default file to save messages to.

Bugs
Probably vast numbers of them... Ones I know about are.:

Unlike most wily windows, it current has the tools *before* the window label.
This is because of the broken tags problem. Right now, I'm cheating,
and inserting the tools at the start of the tag, instead of the end - that
seems to work...

In one case, I have seen the mailer *LOSE* incoming mail. I use Faces
to announce incoming mail, but a commit after the mail arrived didn't
display it. I haven't been able to reproduce this, but be warned...

If you have '.' in the message body, it's not escaped before the body is
sent to sendmail, so that terminates the message.

If you delete windows, view a deleted message, and then do a commit,
the article window remains open.

Since we're renaming the mailbox, instead of overwriting it, it's
losing its original mode/group.

Searching actions are not reflected back to wily correctly at the moment,
so B3'ing within any of the reader windows won't work. Instead,
select some text and B2B1 on Look.

Next and Prev don't change the highlighting of the selected article in
the list window. I couldn't get wily to do this without warping the cursor
to the new highlighting, and that's *really* irritating, so I opted for
the more comfortable, broken approach.

Wily doesn't maintain the edit history when the window is owned by
a client.

NEWS READER USAGE
Started with "nreader". This is an NNTP-only reader, I'm afraid. Those
of you with local spool disks and no NNTP reader will have to hash up
some scripts to browse the spool directory. It uses $NNTPSERVER to
determine the server host name, and by default this is "news".

I rely on the server supporting the XHDR extension. Innd does, and
so does the "reference" implementation.

The reader currently uses .testnewsrc, rather than .newsrc, because
you might not want to blow away your news readership just because
you want to try out some new software.

The reader doesn't add or remove groups, or handle subscribing, etc.
It just updates which articles you've read.

The reader gives some feedback as it first queries the server for new
article counts, and then displays a list of groups and articles. B3'ing
on a group displays a list of articles, just like in the mail reader. B3'ing
on an article's subject line brings up the article. Window control is
mostly the same, except:

	- next/prev will walk off the end of one group, and onto the next.
	In addition to updating the article displayed in the current window,
	it also updates the list of articles in the group window. If you've
	got more than one list window open on the group, it might update
	the wrong one. Sorry.

	- catchup marks all articles in the group as read, and then moves
	to the next group. Closes all displayed-article windows for that
	group too.

	- There are followup and follrep commands as well as reply,
	and there's a post command instead of "comp". Behaviour
	is basically obvious, and follrep posts a followup and emails
	a reply at the same time.

	- there are markread and markunread commands, if this is
	important to you.

	- quit updates your .testnewsrc, but exit doesn't. It doesn't
	checkpoint the .testnewsrc at any point, right now.

Configuration
	You can change the From display stuff, in headers.h. There isn't
	a list of restricted headers here, though. news.h needs your
	mailer defining again.

	FROMENV is the name of the environment variable which contains
	your full, real, email address. This is a bit of an abuse hole, but I
	can't be bothered to work out what it should be (it's a real pain getting
	*mine* from my surroundings...).

	LOADDISP is handy for feedback. If you've got an enormous amount
	of groups to check, this helps you stop panicking. If non-zero, then
	for every LOADDISP groups the server is queried about, the group's
	name is displayed in the main window. (note: unsubscribed groups are
	ignored in this count).

Bugs
	Well, I've only just started using the newsreader, so it's bound to
	be bad.

	Really needs killfile support.

	Doesn't understand cross-posting concepts at all, so you read the same
	article twice. Sorry.

	I've managed to kill wily with "estart failed" at one point - probably out
	of fds...

	If you open article x, hit next a few times, and then reply, followup, etc,
	if you do "inc", you get article x, not the one you want to reply to.
