First bash at a mail reader. There are two pieces of code here:

First off, you've got the generalised reader/viewer thingy. This
is intended to be used as the basis for a newsreader too, but I obviously
haven't got that far yet. It's mostly either implemented or hooks,
depending on which part you look at. It supports windows of
articles and lists of subjects, and there can be lots of either type. However,
I've only ever run it with one list window, so I've no idea if the code'll
work if you try multiple articles. It has hooks for saving internal
copies of window contents, but I don't use them at the moment (I
can't be bothered to work out what to do if someone does a sweeping
delete of half the contents of a list window).

Makefile
getmsg.c		Gets messages from wily. Used to be ridiculously
				complicated, before libmsg took over msg queueing
				(thank you, gary).
headers.h
proto.h
reader.c		The generic reader thingy. Unpleasant.
reader.h
utils.c			Coupla handy things.


Then you've got the mail-specific stuff. This currently cheats for
sending messages. For example, it uses the From: line, and just
feeds articles into sendmail without caring what they look like.

mail.c		Main mail program.
mail.h		Definitions. Hack MTU to be something that accepts
			a complete article on stdin, including headers.
mbox.c		Mailbox handling routines. These are actually swiped from
			a 9term-like mail reader I wrote about a year ago, and never
			finished. I *think* they're ok at updating your mailbox, but,
			well, they might not be. Handle with care.
mbox.h
solaris.c	The mbox routines assume that the whole mail file is accessible
			as a single string. This uses malloc/fread to do this. It used to
			use mmap(), but that's buggy over NFS.

includepatches	Changes to the libmsg prototypes.
libmsgpatches	Some additions to the msg library:
				- rpc_settag() and rpc_setname() added.
				- rpc_new() gets a "isreal" argument.
wilypatches		Hacks to wily, against 0.9.5. Looking through them, they do:
				- Add a "Dot" builtin, that toggles display of .* files. By
				default, they're not shown. B2 on Dot and Get to show them.

				- Adds support for rpc_goto() to wily.

				- Adds (very basic) support for rpc_settag() to wily.

				- Doesn't complain about virtual windows, or attempt to
				back them up.

winpatches	Just changes win to say its window isn't real.

USAGE
Invoke with "mreader [-ma] mailboxname". The "-ma" option allows you
to have multiple article windows open at once. By default, it only has the
one article window open, because it's easier to find where the article
window is, once you've positioned it. Unfortunately, this means that
you don't get to see the article you're replying to. To fix this, there's a
"multiart" command, which toggles this value from within the reader.

First window to appear is the list window. It shows all the articles
from the given mailfile, one per line. The line contains the From and
Subject fields, but it's currently chopped to make things look nicer.

You open an article by B3'ing on its subject line. What else?

Commands supported:
	exit		exit without doing anything to the mailfile.
	quit		save any changes to the mailfile before quitting.
	delete	delete the selected article. "selected" means the article
			which has dot in its subject line. This means you can
			click on the subject line with either B1 or B3, and then
			click on delete. Of course, if you click on delete within
			an article window, that article is the one that is deleted.
			Delete doesn't actually do anything except mark the
			article for deletion, and puts a "D" before at the start of
			the subject line.
	undelete reverses delete.
	comp	compose a new message. You get a blank article window
			with From, To and Subject fields. Don't delete them.
	reply	Reply to the article (article is selected in the same fashion,
			i.e. B1/B3 list window, or just the article that the reply
			cmd was executed in). The To field is filled in from the
			From field. You can use "inc" or "incall" to include the
			text of the article you're replying to.
	abort	junk a comp/reply article without sending it.
	deliver	post a complete comp/reply article (well, feed it to sendmail).
	savefile	sets the name of the file that "save" writes to.
	save	appends the current message into the savefile. Creates the
			file if it doesn't exist.
	multiart toggles the "only one article window at once" flag. This is
			handy for viewing several articles or reading one article
			while replying to another.
	inc [n]	Includes a message into the current position of the current
			message. It's supposed to accept a message number, too,
			but I haven't tried that.
	incall	Same as inc, but will include the headers of the message, too.

Bugs
Vast numbers of them...

Currently needs to have at least *something* in your mailbox, otherwise
it exits.

At the moment, it's one-shot - it never rescans your mailbox to see if more
mail has arrived (except when writing changes back on "quit"; it *has* to
then....). This means you still need another mail notification program. I
recommend Faces. :-)

The preferred means of reading the mailbox is with mmap(), but under
Solaris 2.3, that's buggy for NFS-mounted directories, so right now it
compiles with a malloc-and-fread method instead.

Unlike most windows, it current has the tools *before* the window label.
This is because of the broken tags problem. Right now, I'm cheating,
and inserting the tools at the start of the tag, instead of the end - that
seems to work...
